Sarukawa Tech Nekoma
And Sarukawa scores back-to-back points!
They've taken the lead for the first time halfway through the second set.
It's annoying how they hit the ball where it's hard to receive.
Even in situations where they might score if they go all-out,
they're holding back on purpose.
They've been skillfully weaving that strategy into this match.
When you actually stand on the court and are facing your opponents' attacks,
things might not go as you planned on the whiteboard.
But they have the resilience to pull it off,
as well as the smarts and calm to look at the match as a whole.
You've got some great players there,
Aritaka.
Crush him...
That setter's been babied by having all the passes go right to him.
Crush him!
Haikyuu Haikyuu Haikyuu Haikyuu Haikyuu Haikyuu
Haikyuu !
!
Haikyuu
We're not gonna quit now, we're not stopping here, we're not giving up
We're in the direst of straits We understand all that
But we're not quitting now, we're not stopping, we're not giving up
'Cause if we give up now It'll all be over
If we don't step up to the challenge, we'll never get a taste
Of the most exhilarating time of our lives
There's always been something we've lacked, something missing
Haven't you also hungered for it?
So we'll be coming at them fair and square
We're gonna play out this reality, all the sweet and all the sour
We wanna come straight at you with the greatest of finesse
We're torn toward that delight because that seems like the most fun
So there's no way we're giving up now
Not until we've tasted it all and are left grinning
So let's start smiling
Episode Eighteen: Trap Episode Eighteen: Trap
Episode Eighteen: Trap Nice receive!
It's not that nice.
Nice spike!
That was a bit low.
Sorry.
Sarukawa Tech Nekoma Yamamoto, number four,
as well as Nekoma's two middle blockers, Kuroo, number one, and Haiba, number eleven, are all incredibly good.
Sarukawa Tech is probably focusing most of their attention on those three.
I'm sure that Sarukawa's blockers were on their guard here with Haiba,
and that's how Fukunaga on the left got that point.
Kenma, you look super tired!
Shut up.
The... setter, is it?
If you guys knew that he was so weak, couldn't you guys have just ganged up on him too?
Uh, well, even if we were going to gang up on him, the setter usually touches the ball second.
Ganging up on anyone else with your serves is a pretty good strategy.
You need a lot of guts and persistence to put that much direct pressure on someone for that long.
Sarukawa Tech Nekoma
What's this? Did the setter, Kozume, trip over his own feet?
Lucky, lucky, Sarukawa! Lucky, lucky, Sarukawa!
Keep Standing Back Up
You do move around quite a bit as the setter.
Sarukawa Tech Nekoma
That position is a lot more intense than it seems.
Even if it may look like a repetition of simple points,
they are still stacking up gradually.
Five deflections instead of one time shutting them down with a block.
Ten times applying pressure.
Five B-passes you get up rather than one perfect A-pass.
Or ten C-passes.
The stronger our opponent,
the more we have to look at the flow of the match as a whole.
Stack up the 100 shots that don't stand out at the end, rather than the perfect point.
Yes, sir!
You good?
Ugh, how lame...
This is only the second set.
My hands are melting.
No one ever looks cool when they're desperate.
Could you not look so smug when you say that?
Sarukawa definitely has the upper hand this set, so letting Kozume rest until the next set is an option.
And look.
Speak of the devil...
All right, just one more push.
It's... out!
It's all good. Let's keep this up.
Man, that was close!
They were aiming for a great spot, though.
We still have control of the flow.
Now's the time to keep pushing through.
Don't rush it!
I touched it!
Someone get it!
Zawa!
What a nice receive!
It's short.
Sarukawa Tech is calmly aiming for all the holes in their defense.
Nekoma's getting sloppy!
Sarukawa Tech Nekoma
Nekoma's catching up at the end of the set!
They've tied it up!
They were thrown off balance, but they got the ball to the right, where the blockers weren't as deep.
They're starting to get used to us.
But they're not perfect.
Don't rush it.
Right!
Sorry about that!
It's fine!
Give us a good serve, Kura!
That serve floats just over the net.
Up front!
Yaku!
Got it!
Did Nekoma's receive veer too far to the side?
Hey, come on, now. Get that ball up properly.
Over here.
Wait.
They did that on purpose to lure our blockers away from the left.
Stay there!
You figured it out?
Okay.
Guess we're going right, then.
Yeah!
Kai Nobuyuki scores from the right!
Connect
They're going after the right side, even though it's narrow.
Sarukawa's blockers look a bit shocked too.
Sarukawa Tech Nekoma
Kozume is a setter who doesn't stand out very much,
but he may be the one everyone needs to keep an eye out for.
It was short. I'm sorry.
It's okay.
They might've messed up that receive on purpose.
To lure away the blockers, right?
Hey, wait... Then that means...
When did this start?
Haikyuu!!
Connect
Looks like their team is trying to get Kenma to run around.
Tokyo Nekoma Tokyo Nekoma Yeah.
Huh? What?
What's that mean?
Inuoka... Well...
You know what an A-pass is, right?
Yeah.
The receive goes back to the setter with an A-pass.
Can we come up with some strategy where we win without me getting tired?
Yeah, right.
Are you really Kenma? That was a dumb thing to say.
In order to get past our opponents' guts and perseverance,
we're gonna have to be just as resilient.
What?! Is that what they're trying to do?!
They sure are. It's pretty amazing.
We'll get used to it.
The receivers will, that is!
Yeah! We take care of our pampered little prince!
Nekoma knows how to keep our setter from moving much.
But...
just seeing who can hold out longer isn't that much fun.
Huh?
You mean you want us to do sloppy receives?
I mean, we use that strategy sometimes, but still...
Not every time, okay?
Just at the opportune times.
I mean, we can get the ball up wherever you need it,
but you're pretty exhausted already. Are you gonna make it?
I can move a little bit.
I mean, I don't want to keep running to the end line and back every time,
but you guys will have it harder than me.
Since I'm telling you to get me the ball where I ask you to while getting used to Sarukawa's attacks.
We can do this, though.
You guys are all so determined to begin with.
So, any other requests?
Get the ball up high.
You got it!
Got it!
Those guys are probably watching out down the middle for Kuro and Lev.
That means their blockers will try to head toward our middle blockers.
And since their whole plan is to try to crush me,
they're totally going to fall for it.
That these receives are just extra sloppy.
Lure the blockers one way with the ball and our middle blockers,
then I'll set the ball to the exact opposite side.
And once they realize what's going on... Stay there!
that's when we aim for the other side.
Kai Nobuyuki scores from the right!
Nice, nice, Kai! Nice, nice, Kai! Do it again!
Connect Sarukawa Tech Nekoma
When did this start?
This might've just been a coincidence.
Don't let this throw you off.
Just think about winning this set.
Right.
Were they planning this from the start?
We thought we were manipulating them, but they were the ones who manipulated us?
They brought out the backup setter, but they don't seem to be putting him in.
Was that to get our guard down?
Maybe Nekoma's setter wasn't as exhausted as we thought he was.
You've got some great players, Aritaka.
But as usual, things don't always go as they were planned on the whiteboard.
Now doubt begets doubt.
Well, isn't that some great timing.
Ishikawa Sarukawa Ishikawa Sarukawa
You guys didn't make a mistake.
All that pressure you applied is working, and Nekoma's setter is definitely exhausted.
We're up against a powerhouse school, so everything won't go according to plan, but we're hanging in there.
Let's give them another push.
Yes, sir!
If Nekoma was doing sloppy receives on purpose, it means they found out Sarukawa's plan to wear Kozume down,
and then they tired him out further to make this work.
Are they friggin' sadists?
There's no easy victory here.
Hey, I know what this is. It's a deuce.
Uh, yeah... This is that, you know, really tough thing.
Sarukawa Tech Nekoma Yeah.
Nice receive!
You're the ones who'll suffer the longer this match goes on.
Their plan was to gradually crush Kenma.
Too bad we're Nekoma.
We'll just get used to it.
Nice receive!
Everything will be decided at the end of the second set.
Everyone's used to what's going on.
Don't rush it!
Meaning, the moment Sarukawa rushes to try to win,
we're going to score twice in a row and win the match.
At least, that was the plan, and everything was going well up until now...
You're so damn stubborn!
Would you just... ...let the ball drop!
Keep Standing Back Up We're not going to lose...
...at persistence!
Connect Push it, push it, Nekoma!
Sarukawa Tech Nekoma
Both teams are masters of defense and unwilling to back down.
We can feel the tension from the court all the way up here!
I should've told them I'd work extra hard in the third set so they'd let me sit the second set out.
Why is gravity a thing in this world? Gravity pisses me off.
If gravity didn't exist, the ball wouldn't fall into our side of the court.
Gravity is what causes the ball to fall and...
Kenma, concentrate.
Curse you, gravity.
Concentration's is the one trait Kenma has more than anyone else, and he's starting to lose it.
Why do you exist, gravity? Gravity... Gravity...
He's reaching his limit.
Tamahiko, warm back up.
Yes, sir.
Then what about you, huh?!
I don't wanna hear about guts from a gutless brat like you!
Ever since Tora said that to me, I wondered what guts really were.
Guts...
I've always despised that word.
I'm pretty sure society hates that word lately too.
They make it sound like it just comes to you.
But lately, I've been thinking...
Whether you love or hate how that word sounds,
it's actually a lot harder to show your guts than you'd think.
Guts are probably a final move.
Only those who have trained their bodies and souls can pull it off.
Meaning, that's an ultimate move that I can't use.
All of these rallies have been super long.
I hit it!
Up front!
Get to the ball a half-step quicker.
That half-step will allow you to control the ball.
Their fatigue has definitely built up.
And yet,
all of their plays are so careful.
The fact that we might be baiting them and might attack from either side...
They're being super careful about all of that.
And at times like this, you just go with a simple, fast set right down the middle.
Sarukawa Tech Nekoma
And there's the back-to-back points!
It was Nekoma that finally broke through their opponent's defense!
Nice, nice, Kuroo! Nice, nice, Kuroo!
You guys use guts or whatever.
I'm pretty sure you somehow think that you can't.
It's true that you always want to give up and try to find the easy way out.
But...
it didn't matter if you were last or how much you complained.
Whether or not our upperclassmen or coaches were watching,
you always saw it through until the end.
Sarukawa Tech Nekoma
Sorry!
Someone get that!
Right now,
Fukunaga's on the left.
Fukunaga's good, so even if there are blockers, he'll still be able to score.
So, is your high school's team good?
But I'm not good.
We all are.
He only does that after he's gotten an A-pass.
Minimal movement...
into a perfect set!
Oh...
Sarukawa Tech Nekoma Sarukawa Tech
Nekoma Sarukawa Tech Nekoma
And there it is!
Nekoma
The team to finally break through their opponent's defense and end the long deuce was Nekoma High School!
What a great final play from Kozume.
He didn't give the blockers a chance to read him at all. What an excellent set!
He really gave it his all.
Nice one, son.
Keep Standing Back Up Thank you very much!
Thank you very much!
We'll have to try harder next time.
The masters of defense, Nekoma...
Compared to the past teams, or rather,
compared to what I imagined, this team was far more aggressive.
Sometimes they're even more aggressive than I could imagine.
However...
You were worthy opponents, Sarukawa Tech.
You actually put in some effort today, Kenma.
Who would've thought you'd come up with a plan to exhaust yourself even more?
I just pushed myself so we wouldn't have to play a third set.
I never would've survived it under those conditions.
Sarukawa would've crushed me completely.
So, hey, Kenma. When you fell earlier, was that all an act?
Do you really think I could fake that?
R-Right...
You finally showed some guts, Kenma!
That's not it.
I'm not at the level where I could use guts.
What?
How do I put this?
I don't... I felt a sense of duty.
Everyone was working so hard to get the ball back up.
So I felt like I had to try too.
I guess.
And I'm trying to tell you, that's what guts is all—
Seriously, do you have to give someone's effort a name?
Is it that weird that I actually tried?!
Why are you so angry?!
I think I heard you getting mad at the air during our match.
Your personality changes way too much when you're angry.
You must be low on carbs.
Have a banana.
Is it so weird that I worked hard for my friends?!
Is it that weird for me to do that, huh?!
K-Kyanma!
The hell?!
Kyanma! My dear friend!
You're so extra, Yamamoto.
Nah.
It's pretty rare for Kenma to actually call a stranger a friend.
Come get some!
Back off!
Fukunaga, don't jump in on this.
Wow, bananas.
I'm just gonna take one.
Now if only Kenma could be half as aggressive in volleyball as he gets when he's playing video games.
Could you not try to narrate my thoughts? Thanks.
Yeah, I hate guts.
They're way too hard for me.
But...
I definitely leveled up for this.
If we're gonna do this,
I wanna fight a strong boss.
I guess there's one guy Kenma actually gets aggressive against.
Hell yeah!
Looks like Karasuno's up against the Miya Twins.
Oh, hey! It looks like they already took the first set, though!
Hey, Karasuno.
Nekoma (Tokyo)
Karasuno (Miyagi)
We're here.
We made it this far.
The only thing I'm sure of is that the day will come when I finally get it
It doesn't matter if I make some mistakes along the way as long as I hold onto these feelings
In my dreams I wanted to throw off the yoke of gravity and reality
But the day in day out of bringing it all together had me grounded
The boy who acted all tough like he wasn't scared of anything
Still hasn't been torn away from the sweat of fierce competition
But he's not just hoping for miracles anymore
We can go anywhere we want to because one day our dream will come true
It was no mere coincidence that we made it this far
Every time we're forced from the stage I always wanna get right back on it
And I can hold onto that strong desire because you were there
Episode Nineteen: The Ultimate Challengers
Next time: "The Ultimate Challengers."